Tutorial - Node A/B tests (#7673)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/node-express-ab-tests.md

import ResultsDark from '../images/tutorials/node-express-ab-tests/results-dark.png'

A/B tests help you improve your Node app by enabling you to compare the impact of changes on key metrics. To show you how to set one up, we create a basic Node app with [Express](https://expressjs.com/), add PostHog, create an A/B test, and implement the code for it.

## 1. Create a basic Express app

First, ensure [Node.js is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/). Then, open your command line, create a new folder for our tutorial, install Express, and create a new file `server.js`:

```bash
mkdir express-ab-test
cd express-ab-test
npm i express
touch server.js
```

Next, add the following code to `server.js`:

```js file=server.js
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const port = 3000;

app.get('/', (req, res) => {
  const paragraphText = 'Placeholder text'
  const htmlContent = `
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <body>
        <h1>Node A/B testing tutorial</h1>
        <p>${paragraphText}</p>
    </body>
    </html>
  `;

  res.send(htmlContent);
})

app.listen(port, () => {
    console.log(`Example app listening on port ${port}`)
})
```

> Run `npm start` and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to see your app in action.

Reviewer: Could also install and use `nodemon` which has auto reset on file change (like other frameworks).

> Run `npm start` and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to see your app in action.

Author: haha yeah I thought about adding nodemon to this tutorial, but didn't want to distract from the core of the tutorial

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={EventsInPostHogLight} 
  imageDark={EventsInPostHogDark} 
  alt="Events captured in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

## 4. Create an A/B test in PostHog

If you haven't done so already, you'll need to [upgrade](https://us.posthog.com/organization/billing) your PostHog account to include A/B testing. This requires entering your credit card, but don't worry, we have a [generous free tier](/pricing) of 1 million requests per month – so you won't be charged anything yet.

Next, go to the [A/B testing tab](https://us.posthog.com/experiments) and create an A/B test by clicking the **New experiment** button. Add the following details to your experiment:

1. Name it "My cool experiment".
2. Set "Feature flag key" to `my-cool-experiment`.
3. Under the experiment goal, select the `endpoint_called` event we created in the previous step.
4. Use the default values for all other fields.

Click "Save as draft" and then click "Launch".

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={TestSetupLight} 
  imageDark={TestSetupDark} 
  alt="Experiment setup in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

## 5. Implement the A/B test code

> To implement the A/B test, we fetch the `my-cool-experiment` flag using [`posthog.getFeatureFlag()`](/docs/libraries/node#feature-flags). Then, we update the paragraph text based on whether the user is in the `control` or `test` variant of the experiment:

Reviewer: I think we should call out that the request handler is now async.
```suggestion
To implement the A/B test, we: 

1. Change our request handler to `async`.
2. Fetch the `my-cool-experiment` flag using [`posthog.getFeatureFlag()`](/docs/libraries/node#feature-flags). 
3. We update the paragraph text based on whether the user is in the `control` or `test` variant of the experiment.

```

---
title: How to set up A/B tests in Node.js (Express)

> date: 2023-02-01

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-02-02
```
